README.md, before:

# Raven

In short, Raven is an operating system. It's a product that you can apply to a
block of computing hardware and then use software applications on it.

In long, why care about an operating system?

<img src="logo.png" width="256" height="256">

An operating system determines what programs you use, and programs are
made by people, and these people are employed by you. The people you employ
speak to you. You don't like it when someone speaks without meaning. Wouldn't
it be nice to fire those people?

This product is the operating system answer to that question. If your computer
has annoyed you, then the Raven operating system can help you use your computer
with respect.

Raven is part operating system and part guide. It lets you cut through the hype
of various products and hire the people who care enough to be good at their jobs.
Raven is a Seal of Approval of sorts; pointing to quality providers to reduce your
computer to the lowest possible cost of respectful software.

Raven contains several models designed to instantly turn any computer
into a reasonbly configured machine for the intended use. It is also possible,
without reboot, to transition from one model to another.

The Raven project allows you to instantly recreate your desktop computing
environment on any new machine starting from only your github account and an
internet connection.

Raven's claims are...
- The target customer is a non-technical user, though competent enough to understand
  what a file-system and storage devices are.
- Raven does not claim to be a performant OS, but it should get the job done
  for home office, gaming, and various development tasks.
- This product teaches you how to live without us, even if you're not a technical
  user. Grab this repo and fly in your own direction, if you wish.

Raven allows you to operate independent of us, but you may choose to reference
this repo for guidance and updates.

- This product is GPLV2 licensed, so share it, back it up, modify it, or create a copy
  for your friends. 
- Raven, when used as guided, is more secure and hygenic than the Windows operating
  system and makes using your computer a quiet and direct experience.

## Compelling features
Non-technical users who are tired of annoying desktop operating systems stand
to benefit the most from adopting Raven.

- Easy starting point to a configurable NixOS system.
- Competant configurations for office, gaming, or software development out of the box.
- Update when / if you want.
- Easy access to otherwise hard to get programs.
- Long list of quality software and guides for common tasks.
- On-system [user-guide](./docs/user-guide.md).
- Easy experimentation! Each modification to your system produces a snapshot of the
  previous configuration. If you make a change you don't like then you can reboot
  your machine and load your old setup.

Commit message:

README: Adding path for an altered license

README.md, after:

# Raven

In short, Raven is an operating system. It's a product that you can apply to a
block of computing hardware and then use software applications on it.

In long, why care about an operating system?

<img src="logo.png" width="256" height="256">

An operating system determines what programs you use, and programs are
made by people, and these people are employed by you. The people you employ
speak to you. You don't like it when someone speaks without meaning. Wouldn't
it be nice to fire those people?

This product is the operating system answer to that question. If your computer
has annoyed you, then the Raven operating system can help you use your computer
with respect.

Raven is part operating system and part guide. It lets you cut through the hype
of various products and hire the people who care enough to be good at their jobs.
Raven is a Seal of Approval of sorts; pointing to quality providers to reduce a
computer to the lowest possible cost of respectful software.

Raven contains several models designed to instantly turn any computer
into a reasonbly configured machine for the intended use. It is also possible
to transition from one model to another.

The Raven project allows you to instantly recreate your desktop computing
environment on any new machine starting from only your github account and an
internet connection.

Raven's claims are...
- The target customer is a non-technical user, though competent enough to understand
  what a file-system and storage devices are.
- Raven does not claim to be a performant OS, but it should get the job done
  for home office, gaming, and various development tasks.
- This product teaches you how to live without us, even if you're not a technical
  user. Grab this repo and fly in your own direction, if you wish.

Raven allows you to operate independent of us, but you may choose to reference
this repo for guidance and updates.

- This product is GPLV2 licensed, so share it, back it up, modify it, or create a copy
  for your friends. 
- Raven, when used as guided, is more secure and hygenic than the Windows operating
  system and makes using your computer a quiet and direct experience.

## Compelling features
Non-technical users who are tired of annoying desktop operating systems stand
to benefit the most from adopting Raven.

- Easy starting point to a configurable NixOS system.
- Competant configurations for office, gaming, or software development out of the box.
- Update when / if you want.
- Easy access to otherwise hard to get programs.
- Long list of quality software and guides for common tasks.
- On-system [user-guide](./docs/user-guide.md).
- Easy experimentation! Each modification to your system produces a snapshot of the
  previous configuration. If you make a change you don't like then you can reboot
  your machine and load your old setup.

## For commercial use
The files in the repository are GPLv2 licensed software. You may use Raven under an
altered license by asking permission first. Email raven@rubicon.aleeas.com
